# Sebastian Jimenez CS-255 Systems-Analysis-and-Design

# Briefly summarize the DriverPass Project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The DriverPass project is a web-based platform designed to provide driving students the resources needed in order to help them achieve their goals in passing their driving test. The client is DriverPass, with Liam as the Owner of DriverPass. They client requested that we design a system that is intuitive and easy-to-use for all students whether they were tech savvy or not.

# What did you do particularly well?
I feel as though one aspect I did particularly well was communication to the users. When creating a design from business and technical requuirements, you must present these designs in a language that is widely understood, not just for tech-oriented people. I tried to make it as clear as possible to anyone involved in the system. From the diagrams to the presentation, communication to the business-oriented personel is important since they are the ones who make the important decisions, especially the higher-ups.

# If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
The business requirements document is a document that I feel could be better revised. The document reports the characteristics, scope, and functional requirements of the system. As I continued through the course, I gained more knowledge on the system at hand and different ways to approach system design. I would improve this document by refining the requirements with clearer limitations and characteristics. As a system analyst gets more experiences with different systems, they also get a feel as to what makes a good system and the common limitations of a system.

# How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
When designing any system, you must keep the end users in mind since they are ultimately the ones who will be interacting with the system once development is over. This means I had to be in the persepective of the end user, these are where use cases and scenarios come into play. As a user, what I want for any system is a simple, intuitive, and responsive interface where my inputs matter and it is a consistent experience. You could have a great idea for a platform, but if the system is not implemented correctly then it can fail and users may not want to interact with your system.

# How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
In my opinion, designing software leaves little creativity as you want to keep within the scope of the client's request. The first thing you must do as a systems analyst is really pay attention to your client and understand what they want out of a system and ask questions to get a better understanding of the details. A good strategy is to constantly collaborate with the client for consistent and reasonable design. This means that you will be able to acommodate the client's request but as the system analyst you will have input as to what is reasonable within the scope and what limitations must be respected (i.e., time and budget). Another strategy in the beginning during analysis is iteration sprints. Before moving on from analysis to building, reiterate through the design and refine your documents for better quality. There could be something that can be added or improved that can save you trouble down the production line.
